# Action items summary #

  * Liza to evaluate the existing search implementations and write additional use cases (by 2009-09-04)
  * Keith to add his acquisition stories to the wiki (by 2009-08-27)
  * Steph to start wiki page on link types; Hadrien to fill out
  * Liza to start a partial outline (with help from Hadrien/Cart) for the next spec draft (by next call)
  * Liza to put together list of known Noah's Ark implementers, send to Raj for mailing list creation
  * Any agenda times for the October meeting to Peter by 2009-09-04

# Open Search (IA) #
  * Raj sent a note to mailing list with links to IA implementation
  * The current IA feed is raw; in a real implementation the PDF results might be pre-processed as part of a discovery tool.
  * This will be identified by the @type attribute in the link to the content.
  * Liza to evaluate the existing searches and write additional use cases.

# Acquisition stories #
  * Hadrien wants to emulate a format like Cucumber to describe user scenarios.
  * Keith provided some existing stories and suggested that we ask the list for more contributions here.
  * Keith will add user stories on the Wiki (by tomorrow)
  * Hadrien to contribute

# Link types #
  * Should we document those types/extensions on the Wiki?
  * Hadrien will post his work on Feedbooks and notify the list.
  * Hadrien is basing his proposed extensions on existing work.
  * If we want to support re-use then we should support comments (vs. reviews).  What about rating?
  * Decided that this is out of scope for OPDS 1
  * Will keep this open as a list of best practices or problem-solving exercise
  * Hadrien thinks we should describe the behavior of reading   systems when they encounter different types of links.  Include recommendations about general behaviour for aggregators    and reading systems, so when you add an extension you don't break everything else.
  * Steph will begin comments as a wiki page, Hadrien to contribute.

# Updating the spec draft #
  * Keith needs help
  * Discussion of generating an outline for people to claim
  * Liza volunteers to start a partial outline (with Hadrien + Cart). Steph to help with editing.
  * Will begin working on an outline next week, will have  something by the next call.
  * The draft will be based around the Atom specification.

# Implementer's list #
  * Raj to set up mailing list, Liza to send a set of initial   subscribers, then notify the group

# October meeting #
  * Will serve both technical needs and high-level interest.
  * We can do:
    1. mini hack-fests
    1. small break-out sessions
    1. wrapping up after with roll call of what else do we need to do, how do we move forward.
  * Keith suggested putting the show-and-tell on the 2nd day   after the first day of coding.
  * There will also be some evening schmoozing (followed by      possible all-night coding)
  * Some potential hard problems to explore:
    1. Identifiers
    1. Other pieces of the ecosystem: shared annotations
  * Steph will help with organizing the event
  * Peter's deadline for setting agenda - get the more formal/significant work item by Friday Sept 4.
  * Peter will grab everyone's ideas and post to mailing list to  call for more items
