#summary Meeting notes from the January 27, 2010 call
#labels meetingnotes

= Roll call =

Peter B, Hadrien G, Raj K, Keith F, Roger S

= Agenda = 

  * News update
  * Crawlable feed behavior
  * Consensus on markup for intermediated acquisition links
  * Expanding Catalog generation/generators
  * Update from IA and Ingram on semantic model for borrow and subscribe acquisition types
  * Client requirements for buy, borrow, and subscribe acquisitions 
  * Querying feeds for included acquisition formats

= Discussion =

== News update ==

  * Keith presented BookSever and OPDS to BISG Webcast and the slides and video are available http://www.bisg.org/events-0-491-bisg-webcastunderstanding-bookserverthe-power-to-find-buy-or-borrow-any-digital-book-in-any-format-at-any-time.php
  * Hadrien spoke Couperin. They are studying ebook use at libraries and universities in France. They've expressed interest and potential support for/recommendation of OPDS. Interest in borrowing.


== Expanding Catalog generation/generators ==

  * Everyone is interested in seeing more Catalogs in the wild
  * Keith would like to see some actual content creators to start dabbling with actually creating some Catalogs, even if they aren't "real"
  * Hadrien is trying to convince French distributors to start creating Catalogs

== Crawlable feed behavior ==

  * Keith just added a section, Complete Publication Collections to the CatalogSpecDraft.
  * The basic recommendation is to make a single, consolidated atom:feed with fh:complete and serve it GZip'd.
  * Raj thinks (nonbindingly) that this sounds like a good start. He would like to see more Catalogs reference a crawlable feed. 
  * 

==  Update from IA and Ingram on semantic model for borrow and subscribe acquisition types ==

  * Raj and Peter spoke with Cart about Ingram's borrowing infrastructure and mechanisms. 
  * IA is cautiously reviewing the possibility of support for Ingram's infrastructure.
  * IA is also working on ACS4-based infrastructure that may move into active experimentation soon.
  * Keith will ask for actual spec text from Peter and Raj when he feels it is blocking the finalization of the first SpecDraft.
  * Peter is trying to speak to Steve Potash about BookServer and lending.

== Discussion of Hierarchical Collections versus Publication Collections ==

  * Roger asks for clarification on the distinction between Hierarchical Collections versus Publication Collections.
  * Keith notes that the spec is missing description of Hierarchical Collections. He'll work on that next.
  * Hadrien expects the display of Hierarchical Collections to be the default.

== Consensus on markup for intermediated acquisition links ==


== Client requirements for buy, borrow, and subscribe acquisitions ==

== Querying feeds for included acquisition formats ==