#summary Meeting notes from the July 29, 2009 Stakeholder's call

= Stakeholder's call, July 27, 2009 =

== Attending ==

  * Keith Fahlgren (discussion leader)
  * Liza Daly (notes)
  * Peter Brantley
  * Hadrien Gardeur
  * Matt Supko
  * Paul Norton
  * Tim Jones
  * Andrew Savikas
  * Raj Kumar



== Review of previous action items ==

  * All tasks from the last meeting have been completed

== Use Case status ==

The deadline for use case finalization was pushed back to *August 5*.

  * *Keith to draw up his proposed ranking of use cases by end of day July 29*
  * Concern was raised that implementing transaction/payment information would be too complicated
    * This may be done as an informative document with examples
    * May be done as an extension

== Acquisition ==

Forms of acquisition were identified:

  # Direct download via HTTP (free, unencumbered ebook)
  # Direct download after payment (paid, unencumbered ebook)
  # Direct download after payment (paid, DRM ebook)
  # Subscription (no download)
  # Lending (time-limited, via DRM)

Keith asked if there were objections to defining that there may be multiple forms of acquisition for a single title.  This could facilitate aggregators which may want to show multiple purchase channels.

Hadrien was concerned that this introduced unnecessary complication.

=== ONIX ===

Should the ONIX pricing model be used?

Objections:

  * Can be complex
  * May not fit easily into Atom
 
Support:

  * Industry standard
  * Simpler models may not work for particular pricing schemes

Hadrien suggested possible use of dc:format.

Discussion of payment/acquisition will move back to the mailing list.

=== Lending ===

More discussion needed to establish what is the minimal feature set required to support lending.

== Entry size/type ==

More discussion to be had on the mailing list about what defines a full or partial entry, and what metadata and link types should be associated with each entry type.

 * *Hadrien to supply a draft proposal for which metadata should be included in each entry type*
 * Also need to establish which link types are appropriate; *Hadrien to propose draft*

== Search ==

Keith proposed that the Open Search discussion be restarted.

= Action items =

  * *Keith to sort use cases by his perceived order of importance by end of day July 29, 2009. Discussion to follow.*
  * *Hadrien to propose link types and metadata to be required/recommended in full vs. partial entries*

== Items which need owners/champions ==

  * *Open Search*
  * *Lending models*
  * *Payment*
  * *Paid acquisition*