#summary Meeting notes from the December 09, 2009 Stakeholder's call

= Stakeholder's call December 09, 2009 =

  * *Peter:* Had several discussions with key partners. Mostly interested in IA content vs Bookserver, but still some interest in OPDS.
  * *Hadrien:* Did several presentations, mostly in France to libraries and publishers. Switched Feedbooks API to OPDS only and realized that a lot more people than expected are already using these OPDS feeds or switched from the older ones to OPDS recently.
  * *Raj:* Solving issues in IA OPDS feeds. Adding thumbnail images, better feeds and lending.
  * *Keith* _(through Peter)_: Writing specs, very high priority. Need to draft a payment API for OPDS (Support for payment gateways).
  * *Hadrien:* Will be working on authentication with Minh from Aldiko. Different from Keith's work on payment but should be useful for some of the same use cases. Will make this part of our discussions public.
  * *Cart:* Need minimal definition of OPDS, very important for Ingram.
  * *Peter:* The work that Keith will be doing on the specs include a minimal definition and should provide an answer.
  *  *Cart:* Michael will work on OPDS for audiobooks. Need to make sure that we can distribute them in a way that's compatible with the OPDS specs. 
  * *Hadrien:* Shouldn't be a problem, still use the same link relationship, just a different mimetype.
  *  *Peter:* We need to have this discussion on the list.  Are bi-weekly calls fine ? (Seems fine). An hour later would make things easier for folks in California.
  * *Hadrien:* Aside from the specs, we should start working on less technical documents with a common vocabulary and elements that we can re-use and share.
  * *Peter:* Will be more than happy to share documents. BISG webinar mid-January with Keith, should be a refinement on the TOC Frankfurt presentation.
  * *Hadrien:* Demos would be useful too. Something that works speaks louder than words.